---
title: PO-33, Pocket Operator KO!
layout: miki
permalink: /miki/music/instruments/po33.html
bullet: ♬
updated: 2019-05-21
# desc:
---

# Specs

- handheld unit
    - 2 AAA batteries
    - LCD screen
    - 23 momentary click buttons
        - 4 x 4 musical keypad, each paried with a red
            - 8 melodic kits, time-streched 
            - 8 drum kits, sliced
        - 15 effects (plus a clean "no-effect")
        - BPM range 60-240
            - Presets
                - 800 - hiphop 
                - 120 - disco 
                - 140 - tencho [sic]

# Musical Keyboard

"Notes" are refered to in their keypad layout starting from the lower left, to the right, wrapping upwards as the pitch increases. This results in an arrangement of 13-16, 9-12, 5-8, 1-4. Notes can be altered once written to the sequencer, and are refered to by their keypad location rather than by a note name, because with a sample, there is no way to know what the sampled note is, let alone if it makes sense to call it that.

If the sampled audio is of an A, then the keypad will be assigned time-stretched pitches as an A minor scale (the white piano keys) plus G#. This can also be used for automatically transposing a piece via the Tone > Pitch control (assuming you can tune to the desired key given the context, live, recording, etc).

| Sampled A | Sampled C | LO # | HO # |
|-----------|-----------|------|------|
| A         | C         |   13 | 5 *  |
| B         | D         |   14 | 6    |
| C         | D#        |   15 | 7    |
| D         | F         |   16 | 8    |
| E         | G         |    9 | 1    |
| F         | G#        |   10 | 2    |
| G         | A#        |   11 | 3    |
| G#        | B         |   12 | 4    |

\* the base note sample with any Tone > Pitch "tuning"

Whatever the sampled and/or tuned base note, the scale will be equivelent to it's Minor scale. Of course, a minor scale is just a rotated major, so use this as you care to (considering the 8th additional note).

# Clever solutions to memory limitation

There are some clever tricks however to get more milage from your memory and riff on the fly. Using the drum kits is an efficient location to keep sample "presets" for melody.

The PO-33 has 40 seconds of record memory, available in two modes: a time-streched chromatic "sample synth", and a 16 slice "drum". Of these two modes, there are each 8 slots to stash those buffers. Unlike the PO-35 Speak, those slots can be of anysize within that 40 second limit, and they can point to another sample or slice without taking up additional memory!

Sixteen slices, across 8 drum kit slots, you can exhaust the unit's memory with 128 different sound-slices available to be copied into the melodic kits. Although within the 40 second memory limitation, the average slice would be 0.3 secons each. 

A slice or drumkit can be replaced at anytime, especially while playing. If you compose on specific melody kits exclusively, or can remember where you shuffle copies of your samples, you can effectively remix on the fly, inserting new "instruments" via slice "copying".

While this seems like a wonderfully clever way to solve the limited memory constraints of the PO-33, it seems to be inherited from the OP-1's similar lift and drop feature.